docs/onboarding_offboarding/Offboarding/admin_checklist.md, before:

# Admin Offboarding Instructions

This checklist is for the assigned lab staff running the offboarding process.

## Before the Offboarding Initialization Meeting
1. Create a folder in the **bhklab.research** drive under [Offboarding Reports](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1QfFFfN4sKITbvyqEB_9QrdgW6ETulWk9) with the name of the lab member.
    1. Confirm this folder is owned by bhklab.research@gmail.com. Transfer ownership if necessary.
    1. Share this folder to the lab member's BHKLab Gmail (e.g. bhklab.johndoe@gmail.com).

1. Create a folder in the **bhklab.archive** drive under [Personal Folders](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1pkE9wPP4j8oDp2yocw4STB3EAj4BUfJh) with the name of the lab member.
    1. All contents of the lab member's BHKLab Google Drive will be transferred to this folder.


### Offboarding Initialization Email Template
Send the following email to the lab member to schedule the two meetings: [Email Template](offboarding_initialization.emltpl)

The email must includes links to:

* The [Offboarding Policy](index.md)
* The [Lab Off-boarding Information template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KhnDPSIPqvjw7__1ACFVlBg7tS21bKxaR5AdPV6voUs/edit?tab=t.0)
* The lab member's Offboarding Report folder
* The [Exit Interview Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdnpTBRTcUmjQ0cnfP9MrN455Oy7tnW1JyRA4cgarvCs56pmQ/viewform?usp=sf_link)
    


## During the Offboarding Initialization Meeting
1. Walk through the [Offboarding Policy](index.md) with the lab member.
1. Make sure they have access to their Offboarding Report folder and Information template.
1. Send the [Exit Interview Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1HEtSofzgdJ-RPYh8rB02RkIdUJ1lRl24OHYSWfpGYLE/edit) to the lab member via their BHKLab Gmail.
    1. Explain that the Exit Interview form should be completed just prior to the exit interview.
1. Request that the lab member change the password to their BHKLab Gmail account and share this with the lab coordinator.

## During the Exit Interview

### UHN Account
The Office coordinator (Soleil Miron) has to make sure that the employee’s UHN email/inbox is inactivated. 

### Lab Service Access
Make sure that access to lab resources are inactivated.

!!! note
    Check the Exit Interview form to see if any of the following lab resources have been requested to be kept active for the lab member.

Service list:

* [ ] Slack
* [ ] GitHub
* [ ] Google Groups
* [ ] H4H
* [ ] GPU Server
* [ ] Cloud services (GCP, AWS, Azure)
* [ ] Miro
* [ ] Paperpile


## After the Exit Interview
To be done by assigned lab staff in charge of offboarding:

1. Update member status in the [BHKLab Member Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1chXQ5U3NL4EZ1ALw7JxmRCmrT0W4SVTt_gT8LUfBHmQ/edit?gid=1405839011#gid=1405839011) sheet to 'Alumni'
1. Update member status on website
1. Remove the member from the [Lab Member Expertise](../Onboarding/lab_member_expertise.md) page

Commit message:

feat: add including mentor on initial email

docs/onboarding_offboarding/Offboarding/admin_checklist.md, after:

# Admin Offboarding Instructions

This checklist is for the assigned lab staff running the offboarding process.

## Before the Offboarding Initialization Meeting
1. Create a folder in the **bhklab.research** drive under [Offboarding Reports](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1QfFFfN4sKITbvyqEB_9QrdgW6ETulWk9) with the name of the lab member.
    1. Confirm this folder is owned by bhklab.research@gmail.com. Transfer ownership if necessary.
    1. Share this folder to the lab member's BHKLab Gmail (e.g. bhklab.johndoe@gmail.com).

1. Create a folder in the **bhklab.archive** drive under [Personal Folders](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1pkE9wPP4j8oDp2yocw4STB3EAj4BUfJh) with the name of the lab member.
    1. All contents of the lab member's BHKLab Google Drive will be transferred to this folder.


### Offboarding Initialization Email Template
Send the following email to the lab member to schedule the two meetings: [Email Template](offboarding_initialization.emltpl)

CC the lab member's mentor/supervisor on this email. They are not required to attend the meetings, but should be aware of the offboarding process, including their requirement to review the Lab Off-boarding Information document.

The email must includes links to:

* The [Offboarding Policy](index.md)
* The [Lab Off-boarding Information template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KhnDPSIPqvjw7__1ACFVlBg7tS21bKxaR5AdPV6voUs/edit?tab=t.0)
* The lab member's Offboarding Report folder
* The [Exit Interview Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdnpTBRTcUmjQ0cnfP9MrN455Oy7tnW1JyRA4cgarvCs56pmQ/viewform?usp=sf_link)
    


## During the Offboarding Initialization Meeting
1. Walk through the [Offboarding Policy](index.md) with the lab member.
1. Make sure they have access to their Offboarding Report folder and Information template.
1. Remind the lab member of the [Exit Interview Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1HEtSofzgdJ-RPYh8rB02RkIdUJ1lRl24OHYSWfpGYLE/edit) sent in the initial email.
    1. Explain that the Exit Interview form should be completed just prior to the exit interview.
1. Request that the lab member change the password to their BHKLab Gmail account and share this with the lab coordinator.


## During the Exit Interview

### UHN Account
The Office coordinator (Soleil Miron) has to make sure that the employee’s UHN email/inbox is inactivated. 

### Lab Service Access
Make sure that access to lab resources are inactivated.

!!! note
    Check the Exit Interview form to see if any of the following lab resources have been requested to be kept active for the lab member.

Service list:

* [ ] Slack
* [ ] GitHub
* [ ] Google Groups
* [ ] H4H
* [ ] GPU Server
* [ ] Cloud services (GCP, AWS, Azure)
* [ ] Miro
* [ ] Paperpile


## After the Exit Interview
To be done by assigned lab staff in charge of offboarding:

1. Update member status in the [BHKLab Member Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1chXQ5U3NL4EZ1ALw7JxmRCmrT0W4SVTt_gT8LUfBHmQ/edit?gid=1405839011#gid=1405839011) sheet to 'Alumni'
1. Update member status on website
1. Remove the member from the [Lab Member Expertise](../Onboarding/lab_member_expertise.md) page
