docs/General/Communications/bhklab_gmail.md, before:

# BHKLab Gmail

In the BHKLab, we primarily use Google Drive for document creation, storage, and sharing and Google Calendar for all lab meeting scheduling. To improve collaboration, communication, and security, we require lab members to create a dedicated BHKLab Gmail.

This email will be used for

- All lab document handling on [Google Drive](#bhklab-google-drive)
- Sharing the [BHKLab Google calendar](#bhklab-calendar)
- Scheduling presentations for [lab meetings](../Meetings/lab_meeting.md) and [journal club meetings](../Meetings/journal_club.md)

You are also welcome to use it to create accounts for tools related to your lab work, such as [Miro](../Presentations/tools.md#presentation_tools_miro) or [Paperpile](https://paperpile.com/).


## Creating your BHKLab Gmail account
Creation of this email should be done during your [BHKLab Onboarding](../../onboarding_offboarding/Onboarding/bhklab_onboarding.md) when you completed the [Onboarding Form](../../onboarding_offboarding/Onboarding/bhklab_onboarding.md#bhklab-onboarding-form), but we will describe it again here. If you have created the account already, you can skip to step 2.

1. Follow the steps described on the [Create a Gmail Account](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/56256?hl=en) page.
    
    a. The format of your email address will be 
        
        `bhklab.firstnamelastname@gmail.com` 
    (ex. bhklab.johnsmith@gmail.com) 

2. Once you have created the account, we recommend setting up a dedicated browser profile for it. Here are instructions for setting up a profile in:

    - [Google Chrome](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/2364824?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop)
    - [Mozilla Firefox](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/profile-manager-create-and-remove-firefox-profiles)
    - [Safari](https://support.apple.com/en-ca/105100)

3. Your BHKLab Gmail will be added to the [BHKLab Google Accounts Google Group](https://groups.google.com/g/bhklab-accounts). This will grant you access to lab-wide Google Documents.

Your BHKLab Gmail account is now ready to use!

## BHKLab Google Drive
Your BHKLab [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive) is where you will store all of your lab documents. Any work related to your lab projects must be stored here.
In specific instances, documents may be shared with or from the `bhklab.research@gmail.com` account - this is one of our administrative accounts that allows us to keep track of lab documents. 

If your document needs to be shared with other lab members, you may use their BHKLab Gmail account OR the BHKLab Google Group to make the document accessible to the entire lab.

!!! warning
    Personal Gmail accounts should not be used for lab documents unless you are a short-term member of the lab (less than 1 month).

### File Sharing
If your document needs to be shared with other lab members, you may use their BHKLab Gmail account OR the BHKLab Google Group to make the document accessible to the entire lab.

To share a document with the Google Group:

1. Open the document you wish to share from your Google Drive.
2. Click the Share button in the top right corner of the document.
3. In the Add people, groups, and calendar events text box, type `bhklab-accounts@googlegroups.com` and hit enter.
4. Set the permission level as makes sense for the document.
5. Uncheck the Notify people option.
6. Click Share.


## BHKLab Calendar
The BHKLab Calendar is managed by `bhklab.research@gmail.com` and contains events for our mandatory meetings:

--8<--
temp.md
--8<--

## Integrating Email with other tools

###  Email Forwarding

### Add Gmail account to your email app
#### Outlook

#### Apple Mail


## Add BHKLab Google Calendar to your calendar
#### Google Calendar

#### iCal (Apple)

Commit message:

feat: add integrating gmail with other tools section, and calendar section

docs/General/Communications/bhklab_gmail.md, after:

# BHKLab Gmail

In the BHKLab, we primarily use Google Drive for document creation, storage, and sharing and Google Calendar for all lab meeting scheduling. To improve collaboration, communication, and security, we require lab members to create a dedicated BHKLab Gmail.

This email will be used for

- All lab document handling on [Google Drive](#bhklab-google-drive)
- Sharing the [BHKLab Google calendar](#bhklab-calendar)
- Scheduling presentations for [lab meetings](../Meetings/lab_meeting.md) and [journal club meetings](../Meetings/journal_club.md)

You are also welcome to use it to create accounts for tools related to your lab work, such as [Miro](../Presentations/tools.md#presentation_tools_miro) or [Paperpile](https://paperpile.com/).

!!! note
    Your specified preferred contact email from your onboarding will be used for the majority of communications, but lab documents and calendar events must be accessed with your BHKLab Gmail account.


## Creating your BHKLab Gmail account
Creation of this email should be done during your [BHKLab Onboarding](../../onboarding_offboarding/Onboarding/bhklab_onboarding.md) when you completed the [Onboarding Form](../../onboarding_offboarding/Onboarding/bhklab_onboarding.md#bhklab-onboarding-form), but we will describe it again here. If you have created the account already, you can skip to step 2.

1. Follow the steps described on the [Create a Gmail Account](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/56256?hl=en) page.
    
    a. The format of your email address will be 
        
        `bhklab.firstnamelastname@gmail.com` 
    (ex. bhklab.johnsmith@gmail.com) 

2. Once you have created the account, we recommend setting up a dedicated browser profile for it. Here are instructions for setting up a profile in:

    - [Google Chrome](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/2364824?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop)
    - [Mozilla Firefox](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/profile-manager-create-and-remove-firefox-profiles)
    - [Safari](https://support.apple.com/en-ca/105100)

3. Your BHKLab Gmail will be added to the [BHKLab Google Accounts Google Group](https://groups.google.com/g/bhklab-accounts). This will grant you access to lab-wide Google Documents.

Your BHKLab Gmail account is now ready to use!


## Integrating BHKLab Gmail with other tools
We recommend adding your BhKLab Gmail account to your regular email app or setting up email forwarding to make it easier to keep on top of shared lab documents and updates to calendar events.

### Add Gmail account to your email app
Please note, you will need to complete this process for each device you want to receive lab emails on.

- Outlook - [Quick start: Add an email account to Outlook](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/quick-start-add-an-email-account-to-outlook-e9da47c4-9b89-4b49-b945-a204aeea6726)
- Gmail - [Add another email account to the Gmail app](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/6078445?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DAndroid)
- Mail on Mac (Apple) - [Add email accounts in Mail on Mac](https://support.apple.com/en-ca/guide/mail/mail35803/mac)

### Set up email forwarding
Follow the steps described on the [Automatically forward Gmail messages to another account](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/10957?hl=en) page.


## BHKLab Google Drive
Your BHKLab [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive) is where you will store all of your lab documents. Any work related to your lab projects must be stored here.
In specific instances, documents may be shared with or from the `bhklab.research@gmail.com` account - this is one of our administrative accounts that allows us to keep track of lab documents. 

If your document needs to be shared with other lab members, you may use their BHKLab Gmail account OR the BHKLab Google Group to make the document accessible to the entire lab.

!!! warning
    Personal Gmail accounts should not be used for lab documents unless you are a short-term member of the lab (less than 1 month).

### File Sharing
If your document needs to be shared with other lab members, you may use their BHKLab Gmail account OR the BHKLab Google Group to make the document accessible to the entire lab.

To share a document with the Google Group:

1. Open the document you wish to share from your Google Drive.
2. Click the Share button in the top right corner of the document.
3. In the Add people, groups, and calendar events text box, type `bhklab-accounts@googlegroups.com` and hit enter.
4. Set the permission level as makes sense for the document.
5. Uncheck the Notify people option.
6. Click Share.


## BHKLab Calendar
The BHKLab Calendar is managed by `bhklab.research@gmail.com` and contains events for 

- [Mandatory lab meetings](../Meetings/index.md)
- One-on-one meetings with BHK
- Any other events the lab should be aware of

Make sure you check this calendar and your BHKLab email regularly so you are aware of any changes to the regular schedule or invitations to your assigned presentation days.

### Integrating your BHKLab Calendar with other tools

Follow the steps described on the [Share your calendar with someone](https://support.google.com/calendar/answer/37082?hl=en&ref_topic=10510447&sjid=5547978077838140625-NC) Google page with your BHKLab Gmail calendar, **not the BHKLAB calendar listed under Other calendars**.

- If you are adding it to another Google Calendar, add that account at the "Share with specific people or groups" section.

- If you [added the email to Outlook](#add-gmail-account-to-your-email-app) on your Desktop, the calendar should be added automatically. Click on the Calendar icon on the far left side of the window, click the dropdown for your BHKLab Gmail account in the left panel, and toggle on the BHKLAB calendar.

- If you are adding it to the Apple iCal app, open System Settings, add the BHKLab Gmail to your Internet Accounts, and make sure Calendars is toggled on.
