docs/disciplines/Imaging/nifti.md, before:

# Nifti Format

<https://nipy.org/nibabel/coordinate_systems.html>
<https://nipy.org/nibabel/nifti_images.html>
NIFTI first poster: <https://nifti.nimh.nih.gov/nifti-1/documentation/hbm_nifti_2004.pdf>
NIfTI structure diagram: <https://nifti.nimh.nih.gov/nifti-1/documentation/nifti1diagrams_v2.pdf>

## Introduction to NIfTI

The NIfTI (Neuroimaging Informatics Technology Initiative) format is a
derivative of the ANALYZE format, which was originally developed for medical imaging.

### Why NIfTI?

Before NIfTI, medical imaging data was stored in a variety of formats,
 including ANALYZE, MINC, and DICOM.

- ANALYZE
    - ANALYZE is a proprietary format developed by the Mayo Clinic.
    - ANALYZE files are not widely supported and are often difficult to work with.
- MINC
    - MINC (Medical Image NetCDF) is a newer format developed by the National
     Institutes of Health (NIH).
    - MINC files are widely supported and can be easily shared and distributed.
- DICOM
    - DICOM (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine) is a standardized
     format for medical imaging data.
    - DICOM files are widely supported and can be easily shared and distributed.

## References

1. Medical Image File Formats, Michele Larobina, 2014.
2. <https://brainder.org/2012/09/23/the-nifti-file-format/>
3. <http://www.cognitive-antics.net/2014/03/04/nifti-plain-and-simple/>

Commit message:

feat: move page to Data Types, organize references and resources, standardize NIfTI spelling, add general info

docs/disciplines/Imaging/nifti.md, after:

# NIfTi Format

## Introduction to NIfTI

The NIfTI (Neuroimaging Informatics Technology Initiative) format is a
derivative of the ANALYZE format, which was originally developed for medical imaging.

### Why NIfTI?

Before NIfTI, medical imaging data was stored in a variety of formats,
 including ANALYZE, MINC, and DICOM [1].

- ANALYZE
    - ANALYZE is a proprietary format developed by the Mayo Clinic.
    - ANALYZE files are not widely supported and are often difficult to work with.
- MINC
    - MINC (Medical Image NetCDF) is a newer format developed by the National
     Institutes of Health (NIH).
    - MINC files are widely supported and can be easily shared and distributed.
- DICOM
    - DICOM (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine) is a standardized
     format for medical imaging data.
    - DICOM files are widely supported and can be easily shared and distributed.

## General Information

- NIfTI files will typically be stored in a single file, with the extension `.nii` or `.nii.gz`.
- NIfTI files are typically used for medical imaging data, such as MRI, CT, PET, and fMRI.
- NIfTI files are widely supported and can be easily shared and distributed.


## Diagrams
NIfTI-1: <https://nifti.nimh.nih.gov/nifti-1/documentation/hbm_nifti_2004.pdf>

NIfTI structure diagram: <https://nifti.nimh.nih.gov/nifti-1/documentation/nifti1diagrams_v2.pdf>

## References and Resources

1. Medical Image File Formats, Michele Larobina, 2014. <https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-013-9657-9>
1. [The NIFTI file format](<https://brainder.org/2012/09/23/the-nifti-file-format/>)
1. [NIfTI-2](<https://brainder.org/2015/04/03/the-nifti-2-file-format/>)
1. [NiBabel - NIfTI images](<https://nipy.org/nibabel/nifti_images.html>)
1. [NiBabel - Coordinate Systems](<https://nipy.org/nibabel/coordinate_systems.html>)
1. [NIFTI plain and simple](<http://www.cognitive-antics.net/2014/03/04/nifti-plain-and-simple/>)
1. [NIfTI NIH site](<https://nifti.nimh.nih.gov/index.html>)
