docs/General/index.md, before:

# Home

## What is the handbook?

The handbook is a collection of resources for the BHK Lab. It is intended to be a resource for all BHK Lab members to learn about the lab, its projects, and how to get involved.

{%
    include-markdown "../../README.md"
    start="<!--intro-start-->"
    end="<!--intro-end-->"
%}

## Want to Contribute?

If you're interested in contributing to the BHK Lab Handbook, we encourage
you to check out our **[Contributing Section][contributing-to-the-lab-handbook]**.

Whether you're looking to [report an issue][submitting-issues],
[add new content][adding-content], or
[suggest an enhancement][submitting-issues], the [Contributing Section][contributing-to-the-lab-handbook] has all
the resources you need to get started. Your contributions help make this
handbook a valuable tool for the entire lab community!

!!! tip "This handbook is under active development and open-source!"

    Visit the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/bhklab/handbook) to
    see the latest updates and contribute to the project.

Commit message:

feat: add quick links and pointers for new members to homepage

docs/General/index.md, after:

# Home

## What is the handbook?

The handbook is a collection of resources for the BHK Lab. It is intended to be a resource for all BHK Lab members to learn about the lab, its projects, and how to get involved.

{%
    include-markdown "../../README.md"
    start="<!--intro-start-->"
    end="<!--intro-end-->"
%}

If you are new to the lab, make sure you start by reviewing all pages in this section (see the left sidebar) and in the [Onboarding][onboarding] section.

## Quick Links

Below are some frequently accessed resources on the handbook that you may find helpful:

| Frequently Asked Question                                  | Link                                                                                                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| How do I set up the VPN again?                             | [Configuring VPN](../onboarding_offboarding/Onboarding/vpn.md)                                                                          |
| Help, I have a meeting presentation coming up!             | [Presenting](../General/Meetings/index.md)<br>(_Tip: Don’t forget to review the [Meeting Owl](../General/Meetings/owl_basics.md) page_) |
| Uh… what’s an SOW again?                                   | [Summary of Work](../General/Summary_Of_Work/index.md)                                                                                  |
| I'm on H4H and I don't know what I'm doing.                | [Using HPC4H](../software_development/Remote_Development/High_Performance_Computing_for_Health/index.md)                                |
| I need some advice and I don't know who to ask!            | [Lab Member Expertise](../onboarding_offboarding/Onboarding/lab_member_expertise.md)                                                    |
| There's something else I need that's not on this handbook. | [Submitting an Issue](../contributing/submitting_issues.md)                                                                             |

## Want to Contribute?

If you're interested in contributing to the BHK Lab Handbook, we encourage
you to check out our **[Contributing Section][contributing-to-the-lab-handbook]**.

Whether you're looking to [report an issue][submitting-issues],
[add new content][adding-content], or
[suggest an enhancement][submitting-issues], the [Contributing Section][contributing-to-the-lab-handbook] has all
the resources you need to get started. Your contributions help make this
handbook a valuable tool for the entire lab community!

!!! tip "This handbook is under active development and open-source!"

    Visit the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/bhklab/handbook) to
    see the latest updates and contribute to the project.
