docs/onboarding_offboarding/Onboarding/mbp_rotation.md, before:

# MBP Rotation Students

If you are a student from the University of Toronto Medical Biophysics program completing a rotation in the BHKLab, there are a few more steps to make your rotation experience as smooth as possible.

## Your Project

Work with your assigned lab mentor to determine what project you will be working on and what the expectations are for your time in the lab.

Focus on elements such as:

- Is there existing literature to review?
- What datasets will you be working with?
- Are you writing code from scratch or expanding an existing code base?
- What are the deliverables for your project? Code, documentation, analysis results, etc.

We know your rotation time will fly by, so make sure to keep that timeline in mind when planning out your work.

## Presentation to the Lab

In your final week with the lab, you will be presenting the work you have completed during the weekly [lab meeting](../../General/Meetings/lab_meeting.md) OR at a time that Ben is available that week. If you are not able to attend the lab meeting, you will need to present your work at a time that Ben is available that week.

!!! warning
     **Schedule your presentation with your lab mentor and the lab coordinator in the first week of your rotation so we can ensure that Ben is available and a room may be booked if the presentation is scheduled outside of lab meeting.**
     For mentors: if the presentation needs to be scheduled outside of lab meeting, please contact the lab coordinator to ensure that Ben is available and a room may be booked.

You can review the [lab meeting](../../General/Meetings/lab_meeting.md) page for guidance on how to present your work, but the best way to prepare is to attend the lab meetings during your rotation to get a sense of what is expected of you.

Commit message:

feat: add info for scheduling meetings for mbp rotation students (#292)
* feat": add info for scheduling meetings for mbp rotation students

* refactor: reword when to set up first Ben meeting

---------

Co-authored-by: Julia Nguyen <julianguyen@Julias-MacBook-Air.local>
Co-authored-by: Katy Scott <k.l.scott16@gmail.com>

docs/onboarding_offboarding/Onboarding/mbp_rotation.md, after:

# MBP Rotation Students

If you are a student from the University of Toronto Medical Biophysics program completing a rotation in the BHKLab, there are a few more steps to make your rotation experience as smooth as possible.

## Your Project

Work with your assigned lab mentor to determine what project you will be working on and what the expectations are for your time in the lab.

Focus on elements such as:

- Is there existing literature to review?
- What datasets will you be working with?
- Are you writing code from scratch or expanding an existing code base?
- What are the deliverables for your project? Code, documentation, analysis results, etc.

We know your rotation time will fly by, so make sure to keep that timeline in mind when planning out your work.

## Scheduling Meetings

Rotation students will meet with their assigned lab mentor weekly, though this will be dependent on the nature of the project. It is recommended to schedule these meetings on your first day with your mentor.

Rotation students will typically meet with Ben twice throughout the rotation, once half-way through the rotation and once after the rotation presentation (See below). We recommend reaching out to Ben to schedule your first meeting in the first week of your rotation. 

## Presentation to the Lab

In your final week with the lab, you will be presenting the work you have completed during the weekly [lab meeting](../../General/Meetings/lab_meeting.md) OR at a time that Ben is available that week. If you are not able to attend the lab meeting, you will need to present your work at a time that Ben is available that week.

!!! warning
     **Schedule your presentation with your lab mentor and the lab coordinator in the first week of your rotation so we can ensure that Ben is available and a room may be booked if the presentation is scheduled outside of lab meeting.**
     For mentors: if the presentation needs to be scheduled outside of lab meeting, please contact the lab coordinator to ensure that Ben is available and a room may be booked.

You can review the [lab meeting](../../General/Meetings/lab_meeting.md) page for guidance on how to present your work, but the best way to prepare is to attend the lab meetings during your rotation to get a sense of what is expected of you.
