docs/General/Presentations/tools.md, before:

# Presentation Tools

This page describes standards, tools, and resources for creating presentations for the lab.

## Google Sheets

All external presentations (conferences, workshops, external working groups), should be created on Google Sheets directly by or shared to the `bhklab.research@gmail.com` account.

Internal presentations, such as [lab meetings](../Meetings/lab_meeting.md) and [journal clubs](../Meetings/journal_club.md), should also be created on Google Sheets.


## Templates  

Several slide templates have already been developed for the lab: 

- [BHKLab Internal Presentations Template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GRdR3ExBVbXwgmjkHBp82i3x_mdQZPzJNHsEz1LiYWk/edit)
- [BHKLab External Presentations Template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1B-iTfzHvVSOD9fW80NZz14ct6HENHWOgTxU8C673TmY/edit)



## Miro 

[Miro](https://miro.com/login/) is a collaborative white board platform that enables simple diagram and multi-figure panel creation for presentations and/or manuscripts. For diagrams that will be used and updated by others in the lab, please request a Miro Board be created via the BHK Lab Miro account.


## Images and Icons

The following are open-source biological imaging databases and platforms. The BHK Lab holds a premium Flaticon account. If Biorender and/or BioArt are used, please remember to add them to the acknowledgements.

- [Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/)
- [Biorender](https://www.biorender.com/)
- [BioArt](https://bioart.niaid.nih.gov/)



## Slido 

[Slido](https://www.slido.com/) is an interactive polling platform that can be easily integrated into Google Sheets. We recommend using this platform to improve engagement in presentations, particularly workshops or other relevant use cases.

Commit message:

docs: Sisiranair/presentation slide update (#300)
* added instruction for manuscript review lab meeting

---------

docs/General/Presentations/tools.md, after:

# Presentation Tools

This page describes standards, tools, and resources for creating presentations for the lab.

## Google Slides

All external presentations (conferences, workshops, external working groups), should be created on Google Slides directly by or shared to the `bhklab.research@gmail.com` account.

Internal presentations, such as [lab meetings](../Meetings/lab_meeting.md) and [journal clubs](../Meetings/journal_club.md), should also be created on Google Slides.


## Templates  

As of December 2025, BHK lab is adapting slides to reflect the UHN rebranding. Please use this template: 

- [BHKLab Presentations Template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cNsokaMk3Y_gvuf0uNRVztzbS0qPKnYi8Zc2Fy12j18/edit?usp=sharing)


## Miro 

[Miro](https://miro.com/login/) is a collaborative white board platform that enables simple diagram and multi-figure panel creation for presentations and/or manuscripts. For diagrams that will be used and updated by others in the lab, please request a Miro Board be created via the BHK Lab Miro account.


## Images and Icons

The following are open-source biological imaging databases and platforms. The BHK Lab holds a premium Flaticon account. If Biorender and/or BioArt are used, please remember to add them to the acknowledgements.

- [Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/)
- [Biorender](https://www.biorender.com/)
- [BioArt](https://bioart.niaid.nih.gov/)



## Slido 

[Slido](https://www.slido.com/) is an interactive polling platform that can be easily integrated into Google Sheets. We recommend using this platform to improve engagement in presentations, particularly workshops or other relevant use cases.
