docs/contributing/reviews.md, before:

# Reviewing a Contribution

> **Note**: This document assumes there is an open Pull Request (PR) awaiting review.

For more details, see the [GitHub Docs on Pull Requests with Required Reviews](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/approving-a-pull-request-with-required-reviews).

## Introduction

Once a contribution is submitted, a Pull Request (PR) must be created. Before merging into the main branch, the PR must undergo a review process.

### Terminology

- **Author**: The individual who submitted the contribution.
- **Reviewer**: The individual reviewing the contribution.
- **Maintainer**: The person responsible for merging the contribution after review.

## Understanding a Review

Reviews are discussions around the changes proposed in a PR. They allow for collaborative feedback, ensuring code quality and alignment with project standards.

!!! tip

    Anyone can review a PR, including those who are not maintainers!
    If you see a PR from another author, and have suggestions for improvement,
    feel free to leave a review.

For further reading, refer to the [Official GitHub Documentation on PR Reviews](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/about-pull-request-reviews).

### Review Statuses

When submitting a review, you can select from three statuses:

1. **Comment**: Provide general feedback without explicitly approving or requesting changes.
2. **Approve**: Indicate that the changes are acceptable, and approve merging the PR.
3. **Request Changes**: Highlight issues that need to be addressed before the PR can be merged.

## Requesting a Review for a Pull Request

After creating a PR, you can request specific individuals or teams to review it.

- Only members of the BHK Lab organization can request reviews from other members.

For more information, check the [Official GitHub Documentation on Requesting a Pull Request Review](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/requesting-a-pull-request-review).

### Adding to an Existing Document

If a document already exists, you can add to it. Check the bottom of the page for information on current authors.

## Conclusion

Effective reviews help ensure that contributions meet project standards, improve code quality, and facilitate knowledge sharing within the team. Whether you're an author, reviewer, or maintainer, understanding the review process is essential to contributing successfully.

Commit message:

feat: add code review documentation with challenges, solutions, and mindset sections

docs/contributing/reviews.md, after:

# Reviewing a Contribution

!!! note

    This document provides an overview of the review process for contributions to the BHK Lab repositories.
    See the [Code Review][introduction-to-code-reviews] section for more information on code reviews.

For more details, see the [GitHub Docs on Pull Requests with Required Reviews](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/approving-a-pull-request-with-required-reviews).

## Introduction

Once a contribution is submitted, a Pull Request (PR) must be created. Before merging into the main branch, the PR must undergo a review process.

### Terminology

- **Author**: The individual who submitted the contribution.
- **Reviewer**: The individual reviewing the contribution.
- **Maintainer**: The person responsible for merging the contribution after review.

## Understanding a Review

Reviews are discussions around the changes proposed in a PR. They allow for collaborative feedback, ensuring code quality and alignment with project standards.

!!! tip

    Anyone can review a PR, including those who are not maintainers!
    If you see a PR from another author, and have suggestions for improvement,
    feel free to leave a review.

For further reading, refer to the [Official GitHub Documentation on PR Reviews](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/about-pull-request-reviews).

### Review Statuses

When submitting a review, you can select from three statuses:

1. **Comment**: Provide general feedback without explicitly approving or requesting changes.
2. **Approve**: Indicate that the changes are acceptable, and approve merging the PR.
3. **Request Changes**: Highlight issues that need to be addressed before the PR can be merged.

## Requesting a Review for a Pull Request

After creating a PR, you can request specific individuals or teams to review it.

- Only members of the BHK Lab organization can request reviews from other members.

For more information, check the [Official GitHub Documentation on Requesting a Pull Request Review](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/requesting-a-pull-request-review).

### Adding to an Existing Document

If a document already exists, you can add to it. Check the bottom of the page for information on current authors.

## Conclusion

Effective reviews help ensure that contributions meet project standards, improve code quality, and facilitate knowledge sharing within the team. Whether you're an author, reviewer, or maintainer, understanding the review process is essential to contributing successfully.
