docs/disciplines/Data_Science/Data_Curation/IO_Clinical_Trial_Curation/index.md, before:

# IO Clinical Trial Curation

**Welcome to the IO Curation Guide!**  

Whether you're new to the lab or looking for a refresher, this guide will walk you through how to curate immunotherapy clinical trial datasets into structured, analysis-ready R objects. Our goal is to help you transform raw and processed data into clean, standardized **MultiAssayExperiment (MAE)** objects that can be used across downstream analyses and collaborative projects.


## What Is IO Curation?

IO curation is the process of transforming clinical trial data into reusable, analysis-ready formats for R.

Each curated dataset includes two key components:

1. **Clinical metadata**: Patient/sample-level information such as treatment, response, survival, demographics.  
2. **Molecular profiles**: Expression data (RNA-seq or microarray), and when available SNV and CNA data. These are formatted as [**SummarizedExperiment (SE)** or **RangedSummarizedExperiment (RangedSE)**](https://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/vignettes/SummarizedExperiment/inst/doc/SummarizedExperiment.html)  objects, depending on the assay type.

We curate all data into the [**MultiAssayExperiment (MAE)**](https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/vignettes/MultiAssayExperiment/inst/doc/MultiAssayExperiment.html) format. All publicly available curated datasets are located on [ORCESTRA](https://www.orcestra.ca/clinical_icb). We recommend downloading one to explore the clinical metadata and molecular assay structure.

## Step-by-Step Workflow

An example of a clinical data processing pipeline is available [ICB_Van_Allen Snakemake](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/ICB_Van_Allen-snakemake.git).

The standard process includes:

1. Download source data  
2. Process raw molecular data (if applicable)  
3. Process clinical data  
4. Add standardized annotations  
5. Create `SE` or `RangedSE` objects  
6. Build the final `MAE` object  
7. IO Example Dataset


## 1. Download Source Data

Begin by reviewing the original publication to confirm study design, molecular assays, and whether the data is public or private.

#### Dataset Categories

- **Private datasets**: Stored internally (e.g., Box, institutional drives). May include PHI and require ethics approval.
- **Public datasets**: Available via [GEO](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/), [dbGaP](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gap/), [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org), and [EGA](https://ega-archive.org).

### 1.1 Molecular Data

If raw RNA (FASTQ files) are not available, look for processed files by modality:

- RNA-seq: TPM or count matrices (CSV, TSV, Excel)  
- RNA-seq: Isoform-level expression (optional but recommended)  
- DNA (SNV): VCF, MAF, or binary gene-level mutation calls  
- DNA (CNA): Gene-by-sample matrices or segment files

### 1.2 RNA-seq Raw Data

[RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)](https://bhklab.github.io/handbook/dev/disciplines/Bioinformatics/Data_Types/rnaseq/) measures gene expression by sequencing RNA and aligning it to a reference genome.

If RNA-seq FASTQ files are available, the output should include **gene-level TPM** values .Include isoform (transcript-level) data when available.

### 1.3 Clinical Metadata

Clinical metadata should be collected as CSV or Excel files and should include:

- Patient/sample identifiers
- Treatment and response information
- OS/PFS time and event censoring (highly preferred)

## 2. Process Molecular Data

### 2.1 RNA-seq Processing

You will need **TPM values** for downstream analysis, whether derived from raw FASTQ files or already processed expression data. The final output should be **log-transformed TPM**.

 - If you have **TPM**, use:
  ```r
  # Apply log-transformation to TPM values
    log2(TPM + 0.001)

  ```

- If you have **raw counts**, convert to TPM using:
  ```r
  GetTPM <- function(counts, gene_length) {
    x <- counts / gene_length
    return(t(t(x) * 1e6 / colSums(x)))
  }
  ```

### 2.2 SNV/CNA Processing

- SNV data: binary gene × sample matrix preferred
- CNA data: gene-level amplifications, deletions, or summary scores

Ensure clean row/column names and valid sample IDs.

## 3. Process Clinical Data

Format clinical metadata as:

- **Rows**: patient/sample IDs  
- **Columns**: clinical attributes

### 3.1 Mandatory Columns

| **Column name**                          | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Patientid**                            | This column contains unique patient identifiers                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **treatmentid**                          | This column contains the treatment regimen of each patient. Individual drug names are separated by ":" and standardized based on the lab's nomenclature. For example, the drug combo "FAC" is represented as "5-fluorouracil:Doxorubicin:Cyclophosphamide" |
| **response**                             | This column contains the response status of the patients to the given treatment - Responders (R) and Non-responders (NR)                                                                                                                                   |
| **tissueid**                             | Cancer type standardized based on the lab's nomenclature from [Oncotree](http://oncotree.mskcc.org/). Example:  “Breast”                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **survival_time_pfs/survival_time_os**   | The time starting from taking the treatment to the occurrence of the event of interest. The event name like "pfs", "os" must be appended to survival_time to differentiate the survival measure. Example for data in this column: “2.6”                    |
| **survival_unit**                        | The unit in which the survival time is measured. If the event is measured in other units such as “day”, or “year”, it must be converted to "month" for consistency                                                                                         |
| **event_occurred_pfs/event_occurred_os** | Binary measurement showing whether the event of interest occurred (1) or not (0).  The event name like "pfs", "os" must be appended to event_occurred to differentiate the survival measure                                                                |


!!!note
    Common columns must be the first set of columns appearing in the metadata, followed by any additional columns. You may add other metadata columns available in the source data, but the standardized columns above should be present first.

### 3.2 Additional Columns 

The table below shows the other common columns across the 19 ICB datasets curated

| Column name         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | type            |
|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| age                 | Age                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | source          |
| AMP                 | Sum of total AMP/coverage; calculated from CNA values                                                                                                                                                                                   | in-lab curation |
| cancer_type         | Type of cancer tissue                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | source          |
| CIN                 | Calculated from CNA values                                                                                                                                                                                                              | in-lab curation |
| CNA_tot             | Sum of total CNA/coverage; calculated from CNA values                                                                                                                                                                                   | in-lab curation |
| DEL                 | Sum of total DEL/coverage; calculated from CNA values                                                                                                                                                                                   | in-lab curation |
| dna                 | DNA sequencing type. eg: whole exome sequencing                                                                                                                                                                                         | source          |
| histo               | Histological info such as subtype                                                                                                                                                                                                       | source          |
| indel_nsTMB_perMb   | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| indel_nsTMB_raw     | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| indel_TMB_perMb     | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| indel_TMB_raw       | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| nsTMB_perMb         | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| nsTMB_raw           | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| recist              | Annotated using [RECIST](https://recist.eortc.org/). The most commonly used responses are CR, PR, SD, PD.                                                                                                                                                              | source          |
| response.other.info | Same data as Responders (R) and Non-responders (NR)                                                                                                                                                                                     | source          |
| rna                 | Type of rna processed data. eg: TPM                                                                                                                                                                                                     | source          |
| sex                 | Sex of the patient - Male or Female                                                                                                                                                                                                     | source          |
| stage               | Cancer stage                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | source          |
| survival_type       | PFS or OS or both (denoted by '/'). If both, added by in-lab curation                                                                                                                                                                   | in-lab curation |
| TMB_perMb           | TMB per megabase (Mb) calculated where: TMB = mutns/target; mutns = number of non-synonymous mutations; and target = target size of the sequencing. See Supplementary Table S2 of [PMID: 36055464](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36055464/) | in-lab curation |
| TMB_raw             | Tumor Mutation Burden raw values                                                                                                                                                                                                        | in-lab curation |
| treatment           | Drug target or drug name                                                                                                                                                                                                                | source          |

## 4. Add Annotations

### 4.1 Gene Annotations

Check the gene annotation version used in the original dataset (typically stated in the reference paper or supplement).  

Then download the matching file from the BHKLab [Annotations repository](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/Annotations). Preferred versions:  

- [**Gencode v19**](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/Annotations/blob/master/Gencode.v19.annotation.RData)  
- [**Gencode v40**](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/Annotations/blob/master/Gencode.v40.annotation.RData)  

Available `.RData` files include: `features_gene`, `features_transcript`, and `tx2gene`.  

> The goal is to **retain as many genes as possible** and match the original reference. Using a mismatched annotation version can lead to a loss of gene entries—this is not preferred.

### 4.2 Drug Annotations

Standardize treatment names using BHKLab’s [drug annotation files](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/Annotations).  

If the treatment is not listed there, search external databases such as [**PubChem**](https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/) to verify the correct drug name.

> **Note:**  
> For the `treatment` column, immunotherapy regimens are currently grouped into the following categories:
>
> - **PD-1/PD-L1**: Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting PD-1 or PD-L1  
> - **CTLA4**: Checkpoint inhibitors targeting CTLA-4  
> - **IO+combo**: Combination immunotherapy  
> - **IO+chemo**: Immunotherapy plus chemotherapy  
> - **IO+targeted**: Immunotherapy plus targeted therapy  
> - **Vaccine_BasedIO**: Immunotherapy based on therapeutic cancer vaccines


### 4.3 Tissue Annotations

Use [OncoTree](http://oncotree.mskcc.org/) to map cancer types. If unmatched, perform manual review and map to standardized tissue categories.

## 5. Create SE or RangedSE 

Use:

- `SummarizedExperiment`: for expression or mutation matrices (TPM, SNV binary calls)
- `RangedSummarizedExperiment`: for genomic ranges (e.g., VCFs with genomic coordinates)

Each object should include:

- `assay`: main data matrix (features × samples)  
- `rowData`: feature metadata (e.g., gene symbol, Ensembl ID)  
- `colData`: sample-level metadata (clinical)


## 6. Build MAE

Integrate multiple assay types and clinical data into a single MAE object.

**Required Components:**

- `experiments()`: a list of `SE`/`RangedSE` objects (e.g., `expr`, `snv`, `cna`)  
- `colData()`: the clinical metadata  
- `sampleMap()`: map linking sample IDs to patients across assays

## 7. IO Example Dataset

View the dataset online at **[ICB_Van_Allen](https://www.orcestra.ca/clinical_icb/62f29ca3b89ff37208748d8b)** — available on **Orcestra**.

The following tabs are included:

- **Dataset Tab**: Contains **Gencode v19** annotations and related publication references. 

- **Pipeline Tab**:  
    - **Commit**: Key scripts are available at [commit](https://github.com/BHKLAB-DataProcessing/ICB_Van_Allen-snakemake/tree/c7a8e0e9e70b27c690e57312eab36d8557629c14). Below is the structure of the folder:

    ```
    📁  ICB_Van_Allen/
    ├── 📄 Snakefile                       # Snakemake workflow combining all scripts
    └── 📁 scripts
        ├── 📄 format_downloaded_data.R   # Generates CLIN, EXPR, SNV input files
        ├── 📄 Format_CLIN.R              # Cleans and annotates clinical metadata
        ├── 📄 Format_EXPR.R              # Processes and logs RNA expression data
        ├── 📄 Format_SNV.R               # Cleans SNV mutation data
        ├── 📄 Format_CNA_seg.R           # Segmented CNA profiles 
        ├── 📄 Format_CNA_gene.R          # Gene-level CNA profiles 
        └── 📄 Format_cased_sequenced.R   # Flags patients with RNA/CNA/SNV data
    ```

    - **Script**: Core functions for curating clinical and molecular data, [ICB_Common](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/ICB_Common/tree/9d3297b69d182e459a25596971670020473a63a5)
    - **Annotation**: Source for drug, tissue and gene annotations files, [Annotations]((https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/Annotations/tree/bd2325ad727b2351d637b66f0313d0dfb81a0917))

Commit message:

add comment related to data type and update steps of workflow

docs/disciplines/Data_Science/Data_Curation/IO_Clinical_Trial_Curation/index.md, after:

# Immuno-Oncology Clinical Trial Curation

**Welcome to the Immuno-Oncology Curation Guide!**

Whether you're new to the lab or need a quick refresher, this guide walks you through the process of curating Immuno-Oncology (IO) clinical trial datasets into structured, analysis-ready R objects. The goal is to standardize raw and processed data into clean **MultiAssayExperiment (MAE)** objects for use in downstream analysis and collaborative research.

## What Is IO Curation?

IO curation is the process of transforming clinical trial data into reusable, analysis-ready formats compatible with R-based workflows.

Each curated dataset includes two key components:

1. **Clinical metadata**: Patient/sample-level information such as treatment, response, survival, demographics.  
2. **Molecular profiles**: Expression data (RNA-seq or microarray), and when available SNV and CNA data. These are formatted as [**SummarizedExperiment (SE)** or **RangedSummarizedExperiment (RangedSE)**](https://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/vignettes/SummarizedExperiment/inst/doc/SummarizedExperiment.html)  objects, depending on the assay type.

We curate all data into the [**MultiAssayExperiment (MAE)**](https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/vignettes/MultiAssayExperiment/inst/doc/MultiAssayExperiment.html) format. All publicly available curated datasets are located on [ORCESTRA](https://www.orcestra.ca/clinical_icb). We recommend downloading one to explore the clinical metadata and molecular assay structure.

# COMMENT: How about annotation data? 

## Step-by-Step Workflow

An example of a clinical data processing pipeline is available [ICB_Van_Allen Snakemake](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/ICB_Van_Allen-snakemake.git).

The standard curation process includes:

1. **Access and download source data** (raw or processed)  
2. **Process or import molecular data** (e.g., RNA-seq, SNV, CNA), ensuring standardized formats and identifiers  
3. **Process and clean clinical metadata**, harmonizing variable names, response labels, and survival fields  
4. **Add standardized annotations** (e.g., drug names, gene identifiers, tissue types)  
5. **Create `SE` or `RangedSE` objects**, depending on assay type  
6. **Assemble the final `MultiAssayExperiment (MAE)` object** integrating all data components  
7. **Review a reference IO dataset** — we recommend exploring a curated example on [**ORCESTRA**](https://www.orcestra.ca/clinical_icb) to understand expected structure and standards

## 1. Download Source Data

Begin by reviewing the original publication to confirm study design, molecular assays, and whether the data is public or private.

#### Dataset Categories

- **Private datasets**: Stored internally (e.g., Box, institutional drives). May include PHI and require ethics approval.
- **Public datasets**: Available via [GEO](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/), [dbGaP](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gap/), [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org), and [EGA](https://ega-archive.org).

### 1.1 Molecular Data

If raw RNA (FASTQ files) are not available, look for processed files by modality:

- RNA-seq: TPM or count matrices (CSV, TSV, Excel)  
- RNA-seq: Isoform-level expression (optional but recommended)  
- DNA (SNV): VCF, MAF, or binary gene-level mutation calls  
- DNA (CNA): Gene-by-sample matrices or segment files

### 1.2 RNA-seq Raw Data

[RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)](https://bhklab.github.io/handbook/dev/disciplines/Bioinformatics/Data_Types/rnaseq/) measures gene expression by sequencing RNA and aligning it to a reference genome.

If RNA-seq FASTQ files are available, the output should include **gene-level TPM** values .Include isoform (transcript-level) data when available.

### 1.3 Clinical Metadata

Clinical metadata should be collected as CSV or Excel files and should include:

- Patient/sample identifiers
- Treatment and response information
- OS/PFS time and event censoring (highly preferred)

## 2. Process Molecular Data

### 2.1 RNA-seq Processing

You will need **TPM values** for downstream analysis, whether derived from raw FASTQ files or already processed expression data. The final output should be **log-transformed TPM**.

 - If you have **TPM**, use:
  ```r
  # Apply log-transformation to TPM values
    log2(TPM + 0.001)

  ```

- If you have **raw counts**, convert to TPM using:
  ```r
  GetTPM <- function(counts, gene_length) {
    x <- counts / gene_length
    return(t(t(x) * 1e6 / colSums(x)))
  }
  ```

### 2.2 SNV/CNA Processing

- SNV data: binary gene × sample matrix preferred
- CNA data: gene-level amplifications, deletions, or summary scores

Ensure clean row/column names and valid sample IDs.

## 3. Process Clinical Data

Format clinical metadata as:

- **Rows**: patient/sample IDs  
- **Columns**: clinical attributes

### 3.1 Mandatory Columns

| **Column name**                          | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Patientid**                            | This column contains unique patient identifiers                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **treatmentid**                          | This column contains the treatment regimen of each patient. Individual drug names are separated by ":" and standardized based on the lab's nomenclature. For example, the drug combo "FAC" is represented as "5-fluorouracil:Doxorubicin:Cyclophosphamide" |
| **response**                             | This column contains the response status of the patients to the given treatment - Responders (R) and Non-responders (NR)                                                                                                                                   |
| **tissueid**                             | Cancer type standardized based on the lab's nomenclature from [Oncotree](http://oncotree.mskcc.org/). Example:  “Breast”                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **survival_time_pfs/survival_time_os**   | The time starting from taking the treatment to the occurrence of the event of interest. The event name like "pfs", "os" must be appended to survival_time to differentiate the survival measure. Example for data in this column: “2.6”                    |
| **survival_unit**                        | The unit in which the survival time is measured. If the event is measured in other units such as “day”, or “year”, it must be converted to "month" for consistency                                                                                         |
| **event_occurred_pfs/event_occurred_os** | Binary measurement showing whether the event of interest occurred (1) or not (0).  The event name like "pfs", "os" must be appended to event_occurred to differentiate the survival measure                                                                |


!!!note
    Common columns must be the first set of columns appearing in the metadata, followed by any additional columns. You may add other metadata columns available in the source data, but the standardized columns above should be present first.

### 3.2 Additional Columns 

The table below shows the other common columns across the 19 ICB datasets curated

| Column name         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | type            |
|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| age                 | Age                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | source          |
| AMP                 | Sum of total AMP/coverage; calculated from CNA values                                                                                                                                                                                   | in-lab curation |
| cancer_type         | Type of cancer tissue                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | source          |
| CIN                 | Calculated from CNA values                                                                                                                                                                                                              | in-lab curation |
| CNA_tot             | Sum of total CNA/coverage; calculated from CNA values                                                                                                                                                                                   | in-lab curation |
| DEL                 | Sum of total DEL/coverage; calculated from CNA values                                                                                                                                                                                   | in-lab curation |
| dna                 | DNA sequencing type. eg: whole exome sequencing                                                                                                                                                                                         | source          |
| histo               | Histological info such as subtype                                                                                                                                                                                                       | source          |
| indel_nsTMB_perMb   | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| indel_nsTMB_raw     | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| indel_TMB_perMb     | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| indel_TMB_raw       | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| nsTMB_perMb         | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| nsTMB_raw           | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | in-lab curation |
| recist              | Annotated using [RECIST](https://recist.eortc.org/). The most commonly used responses are CR, PR, SD, PD.                                                                                                                                                              | source          |
| response.other.info | Same data as Responders (R) and Non-responders (NR)                                                                                                                                                                                     | source          |
| rna                 | Type of rna processed data. eg: TPM                                                                                                                                                                                                     | source          |
| sex                 | Sex of the patient - Male or Female                                                                                                                                                                                                     | source          |
| stage               | Cancer stage                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | source          |
| survival_type       | PFS or OS or both (denoted by '/'). If both, added by in-lab curation                                                                                                                                                                   | in-lab curation |
| TMB_perMb           | TMB per megabase (Mb) calculated where: TMB = mutns/target; mutns = number of non-synonymous mutations; and target = target size of the sequencing. See Supplementary Table S2 of [PMID: 36055464](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36055464/) | in-lab curation |
| TMB_raw             | Tumor Mutation Burden raw values                                                                                                                                                                                                        | in-lab curation |
| treatment           | Drug target or drug name                                                                                                                                                                                                                | source          |

## 4. Add Annotations

### 4.1 Gene Annotations

Check the gene annotation version used in the original dataset (typically stated in the reference paper or supplement).  

Then download the matching file from the BHKLab [Annotations repository](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/Annotations). Preferred versions:  

- [**Gencode v19**](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/Annotations/blob/master/Gencode.v19.annotation.RData)  
- [**Gencode v40**](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/Annotations/blob/master/Gencode.v40.annotation.RData)  

Available `.RData` files include: `features_gene`, `features_transcript`, and `tx2gene`.  

> The goal is to **retain as many genes as possible** and match the original reference. Using a mismatched annotation version can lead to a loss of gene entries—this is not preferred.

### 4.2 Drug Annotations

Standardize treatment names using BHKLab’s [drug annotation files](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/Annotations).  

If the treatment is not listed there, search external databases such as [**PubChem**](https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/) to verify the correct drug name.

> **Note:**  
> For the `treatment` column, immunotherapy regimens are currently grouped into the following categories:
>
> - **PD-1/PD-L1**: Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting PD-1 or PD-L1  
> - **CTLA4**: Checkpoint inhibitors targeting CTLA-4  
> - **IO+combo**: Combination immunotherapy  
> - **IO+chemo**: Immunotherapy plus chemotherapy  
> - **IO+targeted**: Immunotherapy plus targeted therapy  
> - **Vaccine_BasedIO**: Immunotherapy based on therapeutic cancer vaccines


### 4.3 Tissue Annotations

Use [OncoTree](http://oncotree.mskcc.org/) to map cancer types. If unmatched, perform manual review and map to standardized tissue categories.

## 5. Create SE or RangedSE 

Use:

- `SummarizedExperiment`: for expression or mutation matrices (TPM, SNV binary calls)
- `RangedSummarizedExperiment`: for genomic ranges (e.g., VCFs with genomic coordinates)

Each object should include:

- `assay`: main data matrix (features × samples)  
- `rowData`: feature metadata (e.g., gene symbol, Ensembl ID)  
- `colData`: sample-level metadata (clinical)


## 6. Build MAE

Integrate multiple assay types and clinical data into a single MAE object.

**Required Components:**

- `experiments()`: a list of `SE`/`RangedSE` objects (e.g., `expr`, `snv`, `cna`)  
- `colData()`: the clinical metadata  
- `sampleMap()`: map linking sample IDs to patients across assays

## 7. IO Example Dataset

View the dataset online at **[ICB_Van_Allen](https://www.orcestra.ca/clinical_icb/62f29ca3b89ff37208748d8b)** — available on **Orcestra**.

The following tabs are included:

- **Dataset Tab**: Contains **Gencode v19** annotations and related publication references. 

- **Pipeline Tab**:  
    - **Commit**: Key scripts are available at [commit](https://github.com/BHKLAB-DataProcessing/ICB_Van_Allen-snakemake/tree/c7a8e0e9e70b27c690e57312eab36d8557629c14). Below is the structure of the folder:

    ```
    📁  ICB_Van_Allen/
    ├── 📄 Snakefile                       # Snakemake workflow combining all scripts
    └── 📁 scripts
        ├── 📄 format_downloaded_data.R   # Generates CLIN, EXPR, SNV input files
        ├── 📄 Format_CLIN.R              # Cleans and annotates clinical metadata
        ├── 📄 Format_EXPR.R              # Processes and logs RNA expression data
        ├── 📄 Format_SNV.R               # Cleans SNV mutation data
        ├── 📄 Format_CNA_seg.R           # Segmented CNA profiles 
        ├── 📄 Format_CNA_gene.R          # Gene-level CNA profiles 
        └── 📄 Format_cased_sequenced.R   # Flags patients with RNA/CNA/SNV data
    ```

    - **Script**: Core functions for curating clinical and molecular data, [ICB_Common](https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/ICB_Common/tree/9d3297b69d182e459a25596971670020473a63a5)
    - **Annotation**: Source for drug, tissue and gene annotations files, [Annotations]((https://github.com/BHKLAB-Pachyderm/Annotations/tree/bd2325ad727b2351d637b66f0313d0dfb81a0917))
