docs/General/Meetings/index.md, before:

# Meetings

Here’s an overview of **mandatory** meetings to attend. See lab calendar for locations as this might vary as per room availability. Please check with your supervisor/mentor about additional meetings where you are required to join.

| Meeting                                                 | Date and time           | Slack channel     |
|---------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------|
| [Lab meeting](lab_meeting.md)                           | Tuesdays, 10.30-12 p.m. | #general #random  |
| [Journal club](journal_club.md)                         | Wednesdays, 12-1 p.m.   | #general #random  |
| [Radiomics Biweekly team meeting](Radiomics_meeting.md) | Tuesdays, 2-3 p.m.      | #radiomics        |
| [PGx Biweekly team meeting](pharmacogx_meetings.md)     | Wednesdays, 1-2 p.m.    | #pharmacogenomics |

We use The Meeting Owl for our meetings so they can be ran hybridly. See the [Meeting Owl Basics](owl_basics.md) page to learn more about how to use it.

Commit message:

feat: Add Communications section and BHKLab Gmail page (#131)
* feat: add page for BHKLab Gmail guidance with skeleton headers

* feat: add heading anchor to Miro so it can be referenced on the bhklab gmail page

* feat: add Communications and reorder pages

* feat: add content for bhklab gmail description, creation, and google drive

* feat: update the meetings tables by adding frequency, splitting into discipline and lab-wide, and adding the software dev meeting

* feat: add integrating gmail with other tools section, and calendar section

* feat: add sentence about another reason to have BHKLab gmail

* feat: minor updates

- add links to Google Drive and Calendar
- remove erroneous ` ` in email format box
- fix lowercase h in BHKLab instance
- move bhklab-accounts Gmail to a code snippet so it's easier to copy
- add more description to BHKLab Calendar
- update calendar heading for clarity

* feat: give the BHKLab Calendar its own page

* feat: update links for BHKLab Gmail and Calendar to new pages under General/Communications

docs/General/Meetings/index.md, after:

# Meetings

Here’s an overview of **mandatory** meetings to attend. See lab calendar for locations as this might vary as per room availability. Please check with your supervisor/mentor about additional meetings where you are required to join.

| Lab-Wide Meetings                 | Frequency           | Date and time           | Slack channel     |
|-----------------------------------|---------------------|-------------------------|-------------------|
| [Lab meeting](lab_meeting.md)     | Weekly              | Tuesdays, 10.30-12 p.m. | #general #random  |
| [Journal club](journal_club.md)   | Weekly              | Wednesdays, 12-1 p.m.   | #general #random  |

The following meetings are specific to disciplines in the lab and are mandatory for only members of that discipline. Other lab members are welcome to attend these meetings.

| Discipline-specific Meetings                    | Frequency           | Date and time           | Slack channel      |
|-------------------------------------------------|---------------------|-------------------------|--------------------|
| [Radiomics team meeting](Radiomics_meeting.md)  | Biweekly            | Tuesdays, 2-3 p.m.      | #radiomics         |
| [PGx team meeting](pharmacogx_meetings.md)      | Weekly              | Wednesdays, 1-2 p.m.    | #pharmacogenomics  |
| Software Developer team meeting                 | Monthly             | Mondays, 12-1 p.m.      | #software-developer|

We use The Meeting Owl for our meetings so they can be ran hybridly. See the [Meeting Owl Basics](owl_basics.md) page to learn more about how to use it.
