docs/General/Meetings/lab_meeting.md, before:

# Lab Meeting

## Details

**Time**: Every Tuesday from 10:30 AM to 12:00 PM.

**Venue**: PMCRT 4-204.

**Presenter(s)**: One.

## Status Updates

Every lab meeting begins with a 15-20 minute status update. See [pre lab meeting catchup slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Gk5uMTpn8XCMvXmoP8AWjW3x-QM0mHfPB1BfteBfqK8/edit#slide=id.g2684830fade_0_0) for a list of status update materials.

## Meeting Objectives

During lab meetings, you may present the research idea and feasibility, preliminary analyses, progress of your work, or any topics that require feedback from the lab.

You will be sent an email notifying you of the date of presentation as per the lab schedule. If you want to (re)schedule a lab meeting, please contact the lab coordinator after finding a person to switch your presentation with.

### Slides

It is best to follow a standard slide format:

* Agenda
* Introduction
* Methods
* Results
* Challenges
* Key Takeaway/Learning
* Future Directions

!!! tip

    Feel free to use the BHK lab-wide templates for the slide deck:

    * [BHKLab External Presentation Template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1B-iTfzHvVSOD9fW80NZz14ct6HENHWOgTxU8C673TmY/edit#slide=id.g855186e73f_0_44)

    * [BHKLab Internal Presentation Template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GRdR3ExBVbXwgmjkHBp82i3x_mdQZPzJNHsEz1LiYWk/edit#slide=id.p)

Commit message:

feat: add instructions for presenter to bring OWL to meeting

docs/General/Meetings/lab_meeting.md, after:

# Lab Meeting

## Details

**Time**: Every Tuesday from 10:30 AM to 12:00 PM.

**Venue**: PMCRT 4-204.

**Presenter(s)**: One.

## Status Updates

Every lab meeting begins with a 15-20 minute status update. See [pre lab meeting catchup slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Gk5uMTpn8XCMvXmoP8AWjW3x-QM0mHfPB1BfteBfqK8/edit#slide=id.g2684830fade_0_0) for a list of status update materials.

## Meeting Objectives

During lab meetings, you may present the research idea and feasibility, preliminary analyses, progress of your work, or any topics that require feedback from the lab.

You will be sent an email notifying you of the date of presentation as per the lab schedule. If you want to (re)schedule a lab meeting, please contact the lab coordinator after finding a person to switch your presentation with.

On the day of the meeting, you are responsible for retrieving the Meeting Owl and ensuring that it is set up for the meeting. See the [Meeting Owl Basics](owl_basics.md) page to learn more about how to use it.

!!! warning
    If you are planning on presenting remotely, please connect with someone **onsite** to ensure the [Meeting Owl](owl_basics.md) is set up for you. 

### Slides

It is best to follow a standard slide format:

* Agenda
* Introduction
* Methods
* Results
* Challenges
* Key Takeaway/Learning
* Future Directions

!!! tip

    Feel free to use the BHK lab-wide templates for the slide deck:

    * [BHKLab External Presentation Template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1B-iTfzHvVSOD9fW80NZz14ct6HENHWOgTxU8C673TmY/edit#slide=id.g855186e73f_0_44)

    * [BHKLab Internal Presentation Template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GRdR3ExBVbXwgmjkHBp82i3x_mdQZPzJNHsEz1LiYWk/edit#slide=id.p)
