docs/General/Meetings/pgx_meeting.md, before:

# Pharmacogenomics Meeting

The goal of this meeting is to discuss **individual PGx projects**, **check for existing data, models**, **brainstorm** issues/ideas - maybe someone in the team has already found a solution earlier. 

## Meeting frequency
Once or twice a month, 1 hour max

## Meeting style
Rotating presenters from different subteams/projects listed on [Miro](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVM3E5M-0=/?share_link_id=948374782430) can self-assign themselved one week before the meeting. If you do not see your project here, please add.

Slack reminders are set up to `#pharmacogenomics` channel a week in advance.

Presenters self assign yourself one week in advance by adding to [PGx Meeting - coverage](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K6ncKURTKOyaQLLiMnt-Nbdks125dAMb3cHGcC4h6-c/edit?usp=sharing)

## General agenda
 - Present your work with figures and visuals, avoid verbal-only updates (20 mins)
 - Brainstorming or group discussion (20 mins)
 - Wrap-up, mediated by Sisira/lead (10 mins)
 - Summary of discussion
 - Action items for the presented project

## Meeting Ground Rules
1. No meeting unless there is at least 1 presenter signed up a week before. 
1. If not, any PGx meember can cancel the meeting by deleting the PGx meeting on the lab calendar.
1. If there is no meeting, add async updates on [Google doc tracker](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K6ncKURTKOyaQLLiMnt-Nbdks125dAMb3cHGcC4h6-c/edit?usp=sharing).
1. All active PGx members should attend unless there are valid reasons. This should be communicated with Sisira/lead beforehand.
1. Respect time: Stick to time limits to keep the agenda moving.

Commit message:

feat: Sisiranair/adding general pages (#290)
* added pgx meeting info

* added instruction for manuscript review lab meeting

* added instruction for manuscript review lab meeting minor

* Added all active lab projects

* Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/main' into sisiranair/adding-general-pages

* Updated csv formating for hyperlinks as per PR

* Updated pgx meetings to project meetings

* Removed irrelevant pages

* fix: remove reference to deleted projects document

---------

Co-authored-by: Katy Scott <k.l.scott16@gmail.com>

docs/General/Meetings/pgx_meeting.md, after:

# Pharmacogenomics Meeting

The goal of this meeting is to discuss **individual PGx projects**, **check for existing data, models**, **brainstorm** issues/ideas - maybe someone in the team has already found a solution earlier. 

Every project listed on [Miro](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVM3E5M-0=/?share_link_id=948374782430) is expected to set up a meeting.

## Meeting frequency
Once or twice a month or as required by project leads.

## Meeting style
Rotating presenters from different subteams/projects listed on [Miro](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVM3E5M-0=/?share_link_id=948374782430) can self-assign themselved one week before the meeting.

Slack reminders are set up to `#pharmacogenomics` channel a week in advance.

Individual teams can create their own meeting tracker or follow the template here - [PGx Meeting - coverage](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K6ncKURTKOyaQLLiMnt-Nbdks125dAMb3cHGcC4h6-c/edit?usp=sharing)

## General agenda
 - Present your work with figures and visuals, avoid verbal-only updates (20 mins)
 - Brainstorming or group discussion (20 mins)
 - Wrap-up, mediated by Project lead (10 mins)
 - Summary of discussion
 - Action items for the presented project

## Meeting Ground Rules
1. If there is no meeting, add async updates on your meeting tracker.
2. All active team members of the project should attend unless there are valid reasons. This should be communicated with Project lead beforehand.
3. Respect time: Stick to time limits to keep the agenda moving.
